Now with the importance of this service worker lifecycle and how it activates highlighted, let's see how we
can also listen to non-lifecycle events. Right now we only listen to events while referring to the service
worker installation, which is nice but doesn't add any value to our application,
let's add another event listener now, self add event listener fetch.
Now fetch will get triggered or the function here will then get triggered whenever our web application
fetches something.
Now as I told you, a fetch event will be emitted when the HTML pages for example load assets like the
scripts here or like our CSS code here through links or when they load an image, like this.
This all triggers the fetch event.
It will also trigger if we manually send a fetch request in the app.js file which we don't do yet
but we'll do so in the next course module.
So this is when we get informed about fetching,
so let's quickly add a console log here where I'll also say service worker to highlight that
it's coming from there,
fetching something...
and
let's add an event here which we output. Now
this will make sure that we log whenever the fetch event is triggered.
Now with that let's save it and let's go back to the application.
Now again if we reload, this won't activate the new service worker, it only installs it, under application
you see that it's waiting to be activate and we can click skip waiting here.
Now the new service worker is activated.
Another important thing is, once you activated it, all pages are under control of the service worker except
for the page you are currently on,
you need to reload this once for the service router to control this too, simply due to the way time works
I guess, you loaded the page first before the service worker was activated,
it doesn't know this page yet.
So if you reload one more time, you'll see that now we're fetching stuff here and we're emitting the fetch
event therefore.
So this is now all working
and we get a lot of fetch events because we get a lot of places in the application where we do fetch
things.
Now back in the fetch event handler, we can do more than just logging it,
we can use the event which gets passed into the event listener and there we can execute respond with.
Now this allows us to overwrite the data which gets sent back.
Now as I said earlier, you can think of the service worker as a network proxy,
at least if we use the fetch event here. So every outgoing fetch request goes through the service worker
and so does every response.
Now if we don't do anything as we did before,
the response is simply passed on.
However, if you add respond with,
you can basically overwrite with what you want to respond. If you respond with null here, let's reload our
application,
let's make sure we activate the new service worker by skipping waiting and let's reload again,
now you see it's showing us this site can't be reached
window here for a brief second before it recovers simply because we return null initially
here.
Now if we return fetch event request here, which basically means return the fetch request and this
is a promise,
so this will automatically be parsed thereafter and this will also then use the response of this promise
automatically, go back to the application and reload here,
now you see we don't get this in-between because now it never has this point of time where it's not
getting its data and where it then has to fallback to some browser mechanism.
So this is what I will stay with for now,
later in the course we'll do much more powerful things with that though.
We'll really intercept this request and return different things depending on whether we have online access,
if we have internet access or not,
we'll then use respond with to simply check the internet connection basically and return stuff from
our cache or from the network.
So for now, registering the fetch listener is all I want to do,
it's important to understand that fetch is triggered by your web application, by the actual page whilst
install and activate are triggered by the browser
when the service worker is getting installed or was activated.